#labels Featured
= EPUBCheck 3.0 Information =

Current version: 3.0b2

== About ==

!EpubCheck 3.0 is the continuation of the !EpubCheck 1.2 project, upgraded to support validation of [http://idpf.org/epub/30 EPUB 3.0] content besides the legacy [http://idpf.org/epub/201 EPUB 2.0]. 

At the time of this writing, the available build is a [http://code.google.com/p/epubcheck/downloads/list?can=2&q=Build-Development development build ]. We do not guarantee correct results, and there are many tests remaining to be added. [#Contributing_to Your contributions] will help us make !EpubCheck 3.0 stable faster.

Another new feature added to 3.0 is _single file validation_. Currently, the following types are supported: OPF/Package Documents, XHTML, SVG, Navigation Documents and Media Overlay documents (the latter two naturally supported only in EPUB 3.0 mode).

!EpubCheck 3.0 also supports validation of an unzipped EPUB with the possibility to save the created EPUB archive. 

_If you are using !EpubCheck to validate EPUB 2 content and have problems with this development release, we recommend that you revert to using the [http://code.google.com/p/epubcheck/downloads/list?can=2&q=Build-Stable stable build]._

== Running ==

To run the tool you need java (1.5 or above). Any OS should do. Run it from the command line:
All detected errors are simply printed to stderr.

basic mode:
{{{
java -jar epubcheck-3.0b1.jar file.epub
}}}
advanced mode:
{{{
java -jar epubcheck-3.0b1.jar file -mode MODE -v VERSION
}}}
where MODE must be one of the following:

 * `opf` for package document validation;
 * `nav` for navigation document validation (available only for version 3.0);
 * `mo` for media overlay validation (available only for version 3.0);
 * `xhtml`;
 * `svg`;
 * `exp` for Expanded EPUB validation; 

When using -mode exp, one could add an extra flag -save to save the created archive upon validation:
	java -jar epubcheck-3.0b1.jar dir -mode exp -save
VERSION must be 2.0 or 3.0.
Additional flags:
	-help displays a help message;
Note that when validating a single file, only a subset of the available tests is run. Also, when validating a full EPUB, both mode and version are ignored.


== Contributing to !EpubCheck==

If you'd like to contribute to the epubcheck project, then there's some things you'll probably want to do:
  * Join the discussion [http://groups.google.com/group/epubcheck group] for epubcheck 
  * Get the [http://code.google.com/p/epubcheck/downloads/list?can=2&q=Build-Development current build]
  * Document problems under [http://code.google.com/p/epubcheck/issues/list Issues] and submit test cases that expose these problems, either as full `.epub` archives, or as single files.