= Decyphering errors =

A lot of error messages that !EpubChecker generates come from the schema validation library, so they can be somewhat hard to understand. Below is a quick guide. Every error message is preceded by the resource name and the line number where an error occured.

== required attributes missing ==

Some elements have attributes that must be provided. For instance XHTML img element must have src and alt attributes.

== required elements missing ==

Some elements require certain child elements to be provided. For instance XHTML html element must contain body element.

== bad value for attribute "xxx" ==

An attribute is given a value that it cannot have. For instance, id attribute's value must be an XML name and cannot start with digit or have spaces in it.

== attribute "xxx" not allowed at this point; ignored ==

An element cannot have an attribute with such name. Many commonly used HTML attributes cannot be used in XHTML. CSS should be used in most cases instead.

== unknown element "xxx" from namespace "xxx" ==

Unrecognized element. For instance, XHTML does not have font element, CSS should be used instead.

== element "xxx" from namespace "xxx" not allowed in this context ==

The element is used in the context which is not appropriate. For instance, XHTML tr element is used outside of the table.

== unfinished element ==

An element does not contain something that it must contain. For instance, XHTML head element which does not contain title element.

== mimetype entry missing or not the first in archive ==

A valid epub file must contain an uncompressed file named mimetype as a first entry in the zip archive. That file must contain epub mime type (application/epub+zip).


