#summary How to extract information about an epub with epubcheck

= Extraction of information =

With the 3.0 version of epubcheck, it's now possible to extract some information while parsing and checking a epub file.
This extraction is available in two flavors depending whether you only what to use the command line or if you are ready to customize your own report.

== Asking for a xml output ==

The new -out argument can be used to output a xml file containing the information extracted from the input epub file.

So calling `java -jar epubcheck-3.0.jar -out output.xml file.epub` will generate the file `output.xml` containing information on the file.
The output file uses the jhove schema (available at http://http://hul.harvard.edu/ois/xml/xsd/jhove/jhove.xsd or see the project http://sourceforge.net/projects/jhove/) in order to display the information so that properties of any type can be output.

If you need another schema to work with, you can create a XSL stylesheet in order to transform the given output. If you prefer to directly output another kind of information, you must use the second method explain just below.

== Customizing the report ==

In order to generate a specific report, one should develop a new java class implementing the `com.adobe.epubcheck.api.Report` interface.

In particular, the `info(String resource, FeatureEnum feature, String value)` method will be called during the parsing process each time a particular feature has been detected in the epub file. The list of the currently detected features can be found in the `com.adobe.epubcheck.util.FeatureEnum` enumeration.

As a starting point, you can use the `com.adobe.epubcheck.util.XmlReportImpl` class or the `com.adobe.epubcheck.util.ValidationReport` test class.

Once the new report class implemented, you should call it by following the [Library Using EpubCheck as a library].
